Types of attacks in Intruder

Cluster Bomb - This uses multiple payload sets. There is a different payload set for each defined position (up to a maximum of 20). The attack iterates through each payload set in turn, so that all permutations of payload combinations are tested. I.e., if there are two payload positions, the attack will place the first payload from payload set 2 into position 2, and iterate through all the payloads in payload set 1 in position 1; it will then place the second payload from payload set 2 into position 2, and iterate through all the payloads in payload set 1 in position 1. This attack type is useful where an attack requires different and unrelated or unknown input to be inserted in multiple places within the request (e.g. when guessing credentials, a username in one parameter, and a password in another parameter). The total number of requests generated in the attack is the product of the number of payloads in all defined payload sets - this may be extremely large.

Pitchfork- This uses multiple payload sets. There is a different payload set for each defined position (up to a maximum of 20). The attack iterates through all payload sets simultaneously, and places one payload into each defined position. In other words, the first request will place the first payload from payload set 1 into position 1 and the first payload from payload set 2 into position 2; the second request will place the second payload from payload set 1 into position 1 and the second payload from payload set 2 into position 2, etc. This attack type is useful where an attack requires different but related input to be inserted in multiple places within the request (e.g. a username in one parameter, and a known ID number corresponding to that username in another parameter). The total number of requests generated in the attack is the number of payloads in the smallest payload set.

Battering Ram - This uses a single set of payloads. In general, this attack is useful where an attack requires the same input to be inserted in multiple places in the request.
Example: Consider a page having two input fields, now to check for XSS, we require Burp intruder to put each payload in the request where we are having multiple payload positions.
